Welcome to our continuing series of
appalling twistianity.
We're back in our rainbow studio.
I'm your host, Craig Winn,
and the handsome fellow here to my left,
that is Wookie.
We're making our way through the first
sentence that ushered in the Christian
religion.
It's found in the book of Galatians.
Christians have been deceived into
believing that
that the books presented for the Christian
New Testament are arranged by God,
and that Matthew was the first of them
written.
And it's just a bunch of malarkey.
Matthew wasn't written until right around
the hundred CE,
written by an individual who would never
have been anywhere close to Jerusalem as
these events were taking place.
He was three generations removed from the
evidence and a hundred percent of what he
wrote.
plagiarized all from one of three sources
either from Mark, Luke or the Ebownym who
were Hebrew eyewitnesses to the events uh
and of course then you move into Luke
and Luke is copied from uh Mark
And Mark was not an eyewitness either,
nor was Luke.
They were allies of Paul,
simply presenting the gospel according to
Paul.
Even the term gospel is a Pauline term,
one that he made up from evangelium,
glorifying his own message.
So there's just...
is nothing to this.
And the fact of the matter is that
the first fourteen letters,
the first fourteen books that comprise the
New Testament chronologically were all
written by Paul and
and one of them he even admitted that
he was demon-possessed.
But it is in the book of Galatians,
which is the first that he wrote,
that he introduced the myth that has
become known as Jesus Christ.
He had him destroyed,
pulling us away from so as to obliterate
the influence.
of the Towrah.
So his whole mantra is in complete
opposition to the testimony of the God he
claimed to speak for.
Now, in rational circumstances,
people would have rejected his message
outright just for that alone.
He has his God dying.
Now, it's a very odd thing indeed,
unless you're dealing with pagan gods of
where they died and were resurrected each
year in commemoration of the cycles where
winter gives way to spring and the plants
die back in the winter and they are
reborn in the spring.
And that's what Paul proposed.
But guess what?
God's not a man.
Men cannot kill God.
So the premise of his story was pure
lunacy.
Again,
a reason to reject his testimony outright.
That run-on sentence was filled with all
manner of...
factual and rational fallacies,
and it concludes with these words.
To whom the assessment of the brilliant
splendor, doxa,
the opinion regarding the glorious
radiance,
the view or perspective on the appearance
of the shining light by means of the
old and the new systems.
Amen.
Let it be so.
Galatians one, five.
This time with elonos,
again without a verb in sight,
and now in the plural form, etos, anios,
ton, anion,
becomes the old and the new systems.
So we're witnessing the debut of Paul's
most diabolical notions,
that of an old and a new testament,
with the Old Testament being of a God
who is dead
and whose will and testimony no longer
matters,
and that of a New Testament that he
himself was of origin.
He was the one who wrote it,
who conceived it.
It should be noted that Paul,
in his second of three conflicting
accounts on what he saw and heard on
the road to Damascus that became his
conversion experience in Acts, used doxa,
which was translated here as an assessment
of the brilliant splendor.
But since by comparing Acts 26:14 with Second
Corinthians, twelve seven
it becomes obvious that Sha'uwl's
conversation and his conversion experience
was with Satan.
And we are compelled to consider doxa's
glorified and dignified association with
the adversary who he admitted possessed
him.
Now searching Strong's lexicon,
we find that doxa's primary connotation is
to express an opinion,
to present one's own view or estimate
regarding someone or something.
It is from , dokein
meaning to be of the opinion and to
repute, thereby saying,
it seems and is pleasing to me to
question and to suppose.
That is hardly something I would hang my
soul on.
The complete word study dictionary
concurs, writing that doxa is to suppose,
to be of,
of the opinion that something is so it
is therefore Paulos's assessment that satan
is lord he sees him as brilliant radiant
and beautiful consistent with the way he
was seen when presented by Ezekiel it is
how
The adversary actually pictures himself,
that he is so beautiful and shining,
and that is hardly reassuring.
Well, it is their assessment,
and they would be wrong.
It is instructive for us to be aware
of that.
They were now a team,
with one goading the other,
master and his apostle.
They would fight.
Have one put the other on a pedestal.
Put him on a throne.
Appear that Satan is God.
At least for the religious.
The Lord in Paul's estimation was a
manifestation of Theos, of God.
He was glorious.
And it would be by transitioning from the
old system to the new system that Paul's
Lord would be empowered.
Even...
His conclusions now were drawing our
attention to the name of one of the
gods of Egypt.
Amen.
Let it be so.
Amen was one of Egypt's most famous and
acclaimed gods.
Sha'uwl has undermined Dowd in this process,
the Messiah and the Son of God,
while equating his Lord with Satan,
to a messenger of light.
He would say the same thing of Satan
in Second Corinthians, eleven, fourteen.
Even his depictions of the flashing light
that he experienced on the road to
Damascus,
as chronicled in Acts
nine, twenty-two,
and then in the variant story in
twenty-six.
Well,
they are identical to the way that gospel
Jesus is depicting Satan's fall from
heaven as recorded in Luke ten,
eighteen and nineteen,
a statement which of course we will
analyze and compare in due time.
The Greek word aman is a transliteration
of the Hebrew word aman,
meaning trustworthy and reliable in
Hebrew.
Capitalized as amen, however,
it becomes a transliteration of the name
of the Egyptian sun god, Amen-Ra.
As such,
amen is the name of the God to
whom Christians pray when they say,
in God's name we pray, Amen.
So based upon its position at the end
of this clause and its emergence in Saul's
sign-off at the end of his letter,
we would be justified in recognizing that
he was now once again promoting a false
god.
After all,
you will never find God's actual name
written in any of Paul's fourteen letters
or any of the other books of the
Christian New Testament,
meaning they weren't speaking for Yahowah.
And if you're not speaking for Yahowah,
you're not speaking for God.
But they had Amen going for them.
Pharaohs loved a men.
What do you think he was called?
Tukak Amen.
Tutankhamun?
Yeah, that same God.
It is interesting in this regard to note
that among the many obelisks found around
Rome,
including the one now at the center of
the Vatican,
their bases are ascribed with testimonials
to this same God, a sun god.
In fact, one in front of St.
John's Basilica still has the inscription,
the name of our God is... Yahowah.
Not on the bottom of the Egyptian obelisk.
Well, they're wrong.
That would be Amen.
The name of the Egyptian God scribed at
the bottom of the obelisk that is this
right as part of the Vatican.
is Amen such obelisks were sanctified by
clerics and became church steeples replete
with crosses themselves derived from the
egyptian ankh the very symbol of life the
reincarnation and resurrection of physical
beings in the pagan religion practiced by
the pharaohs in egypt why do you think
the pharaohs went through all the trouble
of mummification of fancy tombs and
loading those tombs with food and all
other kinds of provisions including boats
if they didn't believe in resurrection
resurrection is pagan god has nothing
do with it as such the most prevalent
of all crosses before christians began
worshiping their dead god on a stick
featured Amun-Ra at the top of what
became the symbol of christendom crosses
and steeples oh how pagan the religion is
when only you look
Bringing this to a conclusion,
the opening sentence of Paulos's first
letter concludes as follows,
according to the Nestle-Allens-McReynolds
Interlinear.
To whom the splendor into the ages of
the ages, Amen.
And so as we probe the King James
and the Vulgate,
it appears obvious that they wanted us to
believe that the Egyptian sun god Amun-Ra
was eternal and glorious.
The King James reads,
to whom the glory forever and ever.
Amen.
The Latin Vulgate says,
to him is the glory forever and ever.
Amen.
To him who?
Well, if it was to Yahowah,
why didn't he say so?
And if it's to Amen,
he did say so.
But they were not alone.
The New Living Translation,
which is not new, it's not living,
and it most certainly isn't a translation,
conveys the same message.
All glory to God forever and ever, Amen.
But it doesn't mention God in the text.
The only difference, of course,
in them is they
New Living Translation added arbitrarily
God and therefore associated God with the
name Amen.
I think that's worse.
It didn't take Paulos very long to reveal
whose side he was on.
It was not an auspicious beginning.
He had no association whatsoever with
Yahowah, which means he was lying.
Now what follows affirms that Paul's
preaching had failed.
The moment he left town,
the Galatians ignored and rejected what he
told them.
Accentuating the problem,
this is just the second sentence of his
first letter.
So here,
The first sentence lies all over the
place.
It creates a myth of Jesus Christ.
No one named Jesus Christ existed in first
century Judea, the Roman province.
No one by that name.
No one by that title.
There was no Mr. Christ.
There was no Ieosu, Ieosus, Ieosun,
or now as he's called Jesus.
No evidence of such a person,
no name of such a person.
He was completely made up by Paul.
And he then claims that he was authorized
by a God whose name he does not
know.
And then he immediately contradicts the
God who he claims is the basis of
his name.
man-God, I guess a son of God,
by trashing the Towrah,
saying that his God gouged us away from
it.
Then he claims that his God died and
became a lifeless corpse.
That's not much of a God.
Oh, but then he was raised from the,
uh, the lifeless corpse.
Well, that's the dumbest idea ever.
That's the basis of pagan religions.
That's what we witness in the Egyptian
religion.
It's what occurs in the Roman and Greek
religions, but it's not only impossible,
it's counterproductive.
It's absurd.
Uh,
And he concludes it with an ode to
Amen, the sun god of the Egyptians.
And from there,
he tells us that the people that he
preached to initially thought he was an
idiot and rejected him.
Now,
if they heard this directly from his lips,
as he was saying it and justifying it,
and they rejected him,
what in the hell is wrong with the
two point five billion Christians today
who aren't smart enough to do so?
Hmm.
I marvel.
I'm amazed and astonished,
wondering and surprised that in this way,
quickly, you changed,
deserted and departed,
becoming disloyal apostates.
Everyone that heard him.
You remember he was saying, oh,
it's to the brothers.
No, he didn't have any brothers.
They all rejected him.
He's delusional.
No one believed him.
I marvel, I am amazed, I'm astonished,
I'm wondering, I'm surprised, I'm not,
but he was, that in this way, quickly,
suddenly, in haste, immediately,
you changed, you deserted, you departed,
you became disloyal apostates.
You were waylaid, abandoning your loyalty,
you were transposed,
you were transferred to another,
you became traitors.
In the present tense,
this is the current condition.
In the middle voice,
they have done this to themselves under
their own volition.
And in the indicative mood,
the writer is revealing that this was
actually occurring.
He just blew his own brains out.
He, in his first run on sentence,
came up with a hypothetical that is so
absurd, only a fool would believe him.
I'm speaking for the God who I'm
demeaning.
And oh, by the way,
God became a man.
That God was killed by men.
Yep.
And his name, by the way,
is Amen.
Even the pagans didn't believe him.
Glory, glory.
And now,
when he tried to sell that to the
Galatians,
the first community that he preached in,
they said, are you out of your mind?
They all rejected him.
We don't have to
go into historical annals to find out how
Paul was perceived when he first preached.
Because he told us.
Everybody that heard him rejected him.
And by the way,
this is the same conclusion that we find
in Corinthians and Thessalonians.
And it is the conclusion of his last
letter.
He says, everyone rejected me.
All his letters are that way.
He's complaining, nobody likes me.
If it wasn't for the fact that his
letters were promoted by Marcion,
because Marcion was a devoted Gnostic,
and he realized that Paul was preaching
Gnosticism,
no one would even have heard of him.
This religion would have been so far
buried,
no one would have had a clue about
it,
because everyone that heard him rejected
him.
Away from your calling in the name of
Charis.
Oops.
There's the girls again.
This is the second time he has brought
in the girls.
I mean, they're cute.
The Romans and the Greeks drew them
magnificently.
Cute, cute little girls.
You know,
you've got to be into frivolity and
sexuality because they were always
depicted naked.
And they're always partying.
They're always flirting around.
They're always encouraging all manner of
hedonism and sensuousness.
But
Paul had a fascination with them.
And I don't understand why Paul would do
so since he didn't like girls,
but he did.
He liked these.
And anyway, they are the Charis.
And this is the second time he has
mentioned them.
God was very clear in Dabarym.
Eighteen in particular, where he said,
if you want to know if somebody is
a false prophet,
they will speak in the name of other
gods.
Paul never spoke in the name of Yahowah.
He spoke now in the name of Amen.
and of Charis, the Gratia.
Oops.
Okay,
so you've squandered your calling in the
name of Charis.
Now, let's be clear now.
He is not saying that the Charis,
these charities,
the lovely and lascivious Greek goddesses
of merriment known to the Romans as the
gratia, from which grace is derived,
he is not saying that that is a...
a benefit of his religion,
that if you buy into his story,
then grace be unto you.
No,
he's saying in the name of the Charis.
So, and the, you know,
in the name of Amen,
in the name of Charis,
in the name of paganism,
I'm writing this because, well,
I want to appeal to you and the
names of gods that you're familiar with,
because you have no idea who Yahowah is,
so I don't care about that name.
But I'm going to use the names of
the gods that you are familiar with,
like Amen, and like the Charis,
the Gratia.
Oh, to a different euangelion.
Euangelion became gospel.
Now, gospel is God's spell.
It is a replacement.
It's just like we read in that run-on
sentence that Paul used the Greek word
ecclesia, and it is rendered as church.
Now,
several problems with that in that first
sentence.
One is it's obvious he didn't have a
church.
They all rejected him.
Duh.
Second of all,
there is no correlation between ecclesia
and church.
It's not transliterated as church.
It can't be translated as church.
Ecclesia means called out.
That's all it means.
Evangelion can't mean gospel.
It means good messenger or good message.
Sorry.
You either have to transliterate it
because it's a title that Paul is now
establishing for his new religion as
ecclesia and euangelion and forget the
idea of a gospel and a church.
Or you need to recognize that gospel and
church are just made up words that have
garnered a religious meaning,
but have no meaning in the actual text
that was written.
And Gott's spell is the supernatural curse
of a God named Gott.
Sorry.
But that's the truth of it.
And church is derived from Circe,
who is the daughter of Helios in the
Germanic religion.
So all you're doing is adding pagan
deities with every word.
So this is to a different euangelion.
Well, how could it be a different one?
If he is speaking for the God,
How could his message be different?
Which God?
Amun, the chariot?
It can't be a message different from Amun
because he's cited Amun.
It can't be a God different than the
chariots because he cited them.
So whose message, whose euangelion,
whose good message were they going to that
was wrong?
Hmm?
Was it Yahowah's?
And therefore they had chosen a different
healing and beneficial message.
And oh, by the way,
if it's an euangelion that they had gone
to that was different than his, well,
what's wrong with that?
Since he used the same term, euangelion,
wouldn't it also be good?
How can his be good, you good,
if the other you isn't good?
He didn't change to bad.
He stayed with euangelion.
This is a flaw in his own rhetoric.
So he's saying that there's somebody else
out there that is offering a really good
message, but it's different than his,
and you had to reject his to accept
theirs.
So, and he will push this thing.
He will go so far as to say
that Yahowchanan, who's now known as John,
was out there in Ephesus,
and he was baptizing people in a
euangelion that was so different than
Paul's,
that Paul had to condemn him and had
to rebuke him and had to re-baptize all
those people that had been wrongly
baptized in the other good message.
So he is twisted on his tongue here.
And because of the fact that the words
are misrendered and the religious don't
think,
they have no clue that he has positioned
this under the name of pagan gods.
and that he has created his own narrative.
Where did baptism come from?
It came from the pagans.
Yeah, of course.
It was part of the oracles.
Yeah,
the Sibian oracles of the Roman Senate.
He's got every slice of paganism in his
rhetoric so he can bring in as many
people that are dumb enough to buy this
crap.
That is correct.
It was a mix of the Dionysian religion,
the Gratias of Rome,
the Egyptian Amen religion,
was all amalgamated into his new religion.
He's got it all covered.
He does.
And they still reject him.
Plus the emerging religions of the
Germanic tribes.
It was bringing it all together, baby.
You want to be religious?
I got to...
Universal religion for you.
There's no reason, I mean,
it's no wonder why the Catholics called
their new religion Catholic universal.
Why?
Because they amalgamated all religions
into one.
I mean, the Trinity is a pagan concept.
The cross is a pagan concept.
The baptism, pagan concept.
Religion is pagan, by the way.
Christmas, pagan.
Easter, pagan.
All of it.
So it's hard to imagine this getting any
worse, but that happens to be the case.
There are five serious problems associated
with the opening portion of Paul's second
sentence.
First,
the spokesman knows that there is
confusion,
that he is supposed to be
aware of what's going on.
He claims that he's speaking for God and
that he is specially inspired by God to
convey this message.
And yet he is confused.
That's probably not a good start.
God's prophets are not confused in this
way.
They know what's going to happen,
particularly as it pertains to their role.
I'm spoken of a lot in prophecy,
and I know precisely
What's going to happen as a result of
what I'm saying?
I'm not surprised by any of it.
He was.
Why?
Because he was not.
Does the native speak for God?
Second,
the benefits of Yahowah's teaching and
guidance endure.
Those exposed to his Towrah who understand
the benefits of his covenant,
those who act upon Yahowah's guidance
pursuant to his Mowedym,
they are transformed by his instructions
and not for a moment, but forever.
Third, by selecting his metathermi,
Apollos is speaking of a mutiny.
He is criticizing the Galatians because
they have all turned on him.
They didn't turn on God.
They turned on him.
And this has become personal.
The Galatians' disdain was being directed
at Paulos himself.
And because he saw himself as the founder
of a new religion,
he considered these traitors to be
apostates and called them such.
Fourth,
Following Callio,
Paulos has now affirmed that he was using
Cheris as a name.
And while these naked women may have been
alluring, they were mythological.
God does not call us to false gods,
even if they are really cute.
And fifth,
by saying that the Galatians had embraced
a different healing message and messenger,
what are we to make of Paul and
his competition?
Was he fighting against Yahowah's prophets
and against God's son, Dowd?
Because it was becoming ever more apparent
that Paul is opposed to God and those
who speak for him.
Having studied Sha'uwl's initial letters,
it becomes rather obvious that he never
provided his audience with a sufficient
amount of accurate Towrah citations,
in fact, any accurate Towrah citations,
for them to understand yet to reconcile
humankind back into the covenant family.
You can't get there by reading Paul's
letters.
His style was to issue a wide range
of unsupported opinions under the banner.
But I say,
each buttressed by misappropriating and
misrepresenting God's testimony.
So rather than deliver the information his
audience would need to know Yahowah and the
reasons to trust him,
Sha'uwl asked the faithful to believe him,
Paul.
So he's the God now.
He is.
He has become his own God.
He even encouraged them to imitate him.
This was a real scoundrel.
The other reason that Paul had so much
trouble with his first three assemblies,
the Galatians, the Thessalonians,
and the Corinthians,
and overtly denounced all three
communities,
trashing them, berating them,
after having preached directly to them and
amongst them,
is that his message was so radically
different from Yahowah's, from Moshe,
from Dowd, from Yashayah.
And while it was also differed radically
from what would be attributed to gospel
Jesus as the Messiah,
The euangelion were written later on.
The fact is,
there is no record of a gospel Jesus
at this time.
That wouldn't exist for another
twenty-five years,
even after Paul's death.
Therefore,
the widespread and pronounced rejection of
Paul and his new religion,
his euangelion and good and beneficial
message was based on two factors.
It was unsupported and irrational,
and it was in conflict with the God
he falsely claimed he had authorized,
that had authorized him to now,
and we read this, contradict him.
Frankly, it's obvious.
Those who had heard and knew Sha'uwl
personally immediately recognized that he
lacked the authorization and the
credibility to annul the word of God and
that he was out promoting himself.
So it became an issue of credibility.
Those who were aware of the Towrah realized
that they could trust Yahowah or they could
believe Paul.
That was their option.
and initially,
based upon the evidence contained in the
first five epistles to the Galatians,
the Thessalonians, and the Corinthians,
the people who actually encountered this
spurious and irrational rhetoric,
those who listened to his preaching
personally,
overwhelmingly chose God over Paulos.
In fact,
considering Paul's desperate admission to
Timothy, by the time he was done,
Asia had rejected Paul.
He wrote, you know this,
that all of those in Asia have turned
away from me.
To Timothy, one-fifteen.
So I ask Christians,
what did they recognize that you are
ignoring today?
Galatians one six is enlightening in this
regard.
It states that there were two competing
euangelion,
healing messengers and beneficial
messages.
obviously the messenger and message he was
touting was himself and his religion
devoted to Charis and Amen and as
we have made our way through his initial
letter we'll come to realize that he was
being rejected in a manner that would
naturally prompt the retort that we find
here in Galatians so then we are left
to wonder who comprised his competitors
The options are Yahowah and his Towrah,
the mythical gospel Jesus,
who was Towrah observant,
or one or more of the supposed disciples,
namely Shimon Kephesh, Peter,,
yahowchanan, John, or Jacob, James,
none of whom were Towrah adverse.
And none of them were known in Asia
at the time of this letter.
And that leaves us with only one potential
competitor, God.
I wouldn't do that.
Perhaps that is why Paul spoke of his
preference of that their calling in the
name of grace being superior to being
called in Yahowah's name.
The Gratia were more attractive, I guess,
according to Paul,
at least from his perspective.
One of the reasons our options are so
constrained
is because the challenge was said to,
the challenger,
perhaps is a better way to say it,
was said to be willing a different
euangelion,
a healing message and beneficial
messenger.
Therefore,
Paulos' foe could be neither Judaism nor
Rome.
Could it?
Not in use the term euangelion.
At this place and time,
Rome and the rabbis were beginning a war
with one another and were the antithesis
of healing or beneficial.
Furthermore,
in his subsequent letters and in Acts,
Paul spoke glowingly about both Judaism
and about Rome,
eliminating them as adversarial
candidates.
Even though the answer is obvious,
the reason that it was not widely seen
or accepted as such is because of Paul's
approach.
By claiming to speak on behalf of the
individual and message he is opposing and
against the spirit he is promoting,
to discover the truth,
a person has to compare God's testimony to
Paul's.
but by disparaging Yahowah's revelation and
by demeaning and discrediting his actual
son and Messiah, Dowd.
Those who are swayed by Paul are
predisposed to discard this evidence
against him.
I can cite Yahowah's testimony all day long
against Paul's letters and Christians,
and then they, *raah* vomit all over you.
That's what's happening here.
So long as the audience remains religious,
operating in the realm of faith,
Paul's scheme prevails,
even if it is irrational and ignorant.
To understand who is opposing whom,
we have to be willing to examine the
evidence and to process it judgmentally,
something that the religious are opposed
to doing.
In reality,
Paul defined his foe in the first sentence
of his first letter.
He wrote that we were, well,
his devotees were being plucked away from
the counterproductive and laborious old
system,
more accurately known as the Towrah.
If it were not his enemy, paneros,
the verb that he used,
would not have been used to demean it.
So now in the second sentence,
Paulos is distinguishing his approach from
God's.
And he is showing his bewilderment and
frustration that those that he spoke
directly to in Galatia preferred the old
God to the new Paul.
Gee, imagine them.
The audacity of someone to prefer God to
a perverted Christian.
irrational, ignorant,
egomaniacal piece of crap.
Go figure.
And in this way,
Satan is using the same approach he would
pursue throughout the Quran with a
never-ending argument,
should you not be familiar with it.
It's the most repeated theme,
appearing some five hundred times in the
Quran.
Almost everyone who knew and heard
Muhammad recite his Quran rejected him,
and they mocked him.
So Satan, the god of the Quran,
mocked the mockers and threatened to
torture them in the fires of hell.
He never offered any proof of Muhammad's
claims, but he was quick to condemn those.
who sought,
just as was the case here revealed by
Paul,
to reject the message of one who never
had a single way,
not even a hint of a prophecy or
of a miracle or of anything that was
profoundly important for people to know,
not even a single new thought.
And yet,
If you rejected the moron,
their god was ever ready to torture you.
Had it not been for two,
I guess we'll call them clever tricks,
the obvious answer would have become
apparent to almost everyone centuries ago.
The first of these is that by pretending
to speak for God,
by pretending to be a brother,
Sha'uwl became the wolf in sheep's clothing.
He was seen for other than who he
was.
He was accepted and viewed as being one
with them,
even while he was denouncing them.
It is why Yahowah admonishes us for not
questioning Sha'uwl.
The name means question him.
It's why Sha'uwl changed his name.
It is why the Sermon on the Mount
insists that the adversary was a wolf in
sheep's clothing.
Beware.
The second ploy is found in the writing
style,
which blends circular reasoning and all
manner of logical fallacies,
with a myriad of inappropriate word
choices and half a dozen false gods.
This word salad of foreign ingredients is
the prime example.
due diligence is required as is thoughtful
consideration to understand why a violent
verb was deployed to demean what is being
heralded as a pornographic and our own
system that of the Towrah and yet those
who have been conditioned by their
political religious academic and media
institutions to avoid being judgmental
judge not lest you be judged or don't
think even critical
people will read right through Paul's
confession and they can't figure it out
because they don't want to be judgmental.
Also with regard to Galatians one, six,
you may want to note that Paul did
not write gospel.
Nope.
It's like when he said Ecclesia,
he did not write church.
And so you've been lied to.
If you're a Christian,
you've been deceived.
Euangelion, pronounced eu-hang-el-ion,
is a compound of two very common Greek
words, just as ecclesia means ecclesia,
out-called.
Maybe it was an out-call service,
I don't know.
It is not the name euangelion of
something, it's not a title.
And if it were a name or title,
it should have been transliterated
euangelion, but it's not.
And you will find it, however,
transliterated in Jerome's Latin Vulgate.
He just transliterated the sound of the
Greek word in the Latin text.
For example, however,
the King James Evangelion was neither
translated or transliterated,
but instead the Greek word was replaced by
the religious term gospel.
Gospel is not what he wrote.
And it wouldn't be called such for a
very long time.
Now, if I may, in the Quran,
Satan consistently praises the Evangelion.
He uses the term all the time,
saying that he inspired it.
I would agree with him.
I think he did.
With support like this,
we are immediately cognizant of whose side
Paul was on and for whom he was
writing.
The King James conveys,
I marvel that you so soon removed from
him that called you unto the grace of
Christ unto another gospel.
Huh?
But here, now for the second time,
we cannot blame Jerome for the mistake
found in the King James Version.
There is no gospel in the Latin Vulgate.
There is no gospel in the Greek text
underlying it.
I wonder that you have been so quickly
transferred from him who called you unto
the grace of Christi or over to another
euangelium.
We can, however,
blame Jerome for his inclusion of Christi,
which is inherent on every account.
According to Parchment Forty-Six,
which is the oldest witness to this
letter,
way before the Latin Vulgate was written,
Paul did not include the misappropriated
title in this sentence.
Neither by placeholder nor by having his
name
and municis, his scribes, write it out.
This affirms two things.
First,
the King James Version is a translation of
the Latin Vulgate, not the Greek text,
as are most subsequent translations.
And second,
Paul called his faithful to cheris,
to the gratia, to grace,
and not to the teaching and guidance of
Yahowah's Towrah.
which was different in every imaginable
way.
The Christian misnomer gospel was first
deployed in the Tyndale and Geneva Bibles,
forerunners of the King James Version,
which itself was published in the early
seventeenth century.
It cannot be found in John Wycliffe's
translation,
the first made in the English language.
Wycliffe used euangelii, not gospel,
in his late-fourteenth-century edition.
Let's juxtapose the New Living
translations against Saul's actual words
so that you might fully appreciate the
liberties they have taken.
I am shocked that you are turning away
so soon from God,
who called you to himself through a loving
mercy of Christ.
You are following a different way that
pretends to be the good news.
Which you can purchase through our
donations on your way out the door.
If the New Living Translation wanted to
write a novel,
why didn't they just call it a novel?
We'll put it in the fiction section and
this is a novel.
But when you claim to be the word
of God and you change all the words,
then you might as well fess up.
I'm playing God.
I mean, you're being played for a fool,
Christians.
You're literally being played for a fool,
and you'd rather condemn me for telling
you the truth than hold those who have
lied to you and who you've paid to
lie to you accountable.
Compared to the Nestle-Allen,
which is a literal rendering of a text
that has superimposed the Textus Receptus,
I marvel that thusly quickly you change
from the one having called you in favor
of Christ unto another good message.
because they put Christ in there,
and they claim that they're based upon the
most recent findings in terms of
manuscripts, they're lying too,
the Nestle-Allen.
They are lying, because guess what?
Christ isn't found in it.
You can look at any one of the
pre-Constantine manuscripts,
including Parchment XLVI,
and it ain't there.
So even the scholastic tool,
They've written their one-way ticket to a
very dark place.
They have.
And as a reference,
this is literally what Paulos conveyed.
I marvel and am amazed, even astonished.
that in this way how quickly and in
haste you changed,
deserting and becoming disloyal apostates
as traitors,
away from your calling in the name of
Charis to a different healing message
and beneficial messenger.
No mention of God here other than
Charis, the cute little goddesses.
This is all about Paul.
Know the words, deal with the words.
When the words say that the religion is
a farce, the religion's a farce.
Now,
as a result of some religious tampering,
whereby euangelion was replaced with
gospel,
Christians now believe that Paul was
preaching in harmony with the four hearsay
accounts contained in what have errantly
become known as the gospels of Matthew,
Mark, Luke, and John.
But they're not gospels.
It's strictly Paul's,
a corrupted rendering, replacement really,
of euangelion being projected on those
books.
Again, you're being played for fools.
But there are many problems with the
Christian theory.
First,
Sha'uwl never quoted a single line from any
of them.
So he cannot be reinforcing.
He cannot be advocating the gospels that
he never quoted a single line from.
Not one, not ever in fourteen letters.
To think otherwise you have to be,
what's that word?
Stupid?
That's the one, stupid.
Paul's quoting himself.
But I, Paul, say.
Paul did not even reference these
so-called gospels.
Never acknowledged their existence.
Because they didn't exist at the time.
Because they didn't exist.
Second,
these accounts were not called gospels.
And third,
they did not exist circa fifty-two CE when
this letter was penned.
And they would not exist for over two
decades thereafter.
Oops.
Again.
Oops with your soul.
Your soul is just oozing between your
fingers.
If you believe this nonsense.
And this is the inventor of Jesus Christ.
At the time Galatians was written,
the hearsay accounts found in Mark and
Luke were.
two and a half decades away.
Worse,
the errantly attributed Matthew and John
would not come to exist until ninety-five
to a hundred CE, which was, well,
two generations away from Paul and three
generations away from the events that
transpired.
Without any way of transferring any of
this knowledge
such that you now have hearsay three
generations removed from the fact.
You know what that would be called if
you tried to present anything in the four
Gospels, so-called Gospels,
in a court of law today?
You know what they would tell you?
That's inadmissible.
Everything in Christianity is
inadmissible.
Of Mark, Eusebius wrote, Marcos,
who had been Peter's interpreter,
wrote down carefully all that he
remembered of Issou's sayings and doings.
For he had not heard Issou or been,
one of his followers,
but later he was one of Peter's followers.
His conclusion is not true.
The only time Mark is mentioned,
he is part of Paul's posse.
and was solicited by Paul for this
purpose."
Origen, Tertullian, and Clement concurred,
writing at the end of the second century
that Mark compiled his account from
Peter's speeches in Rome.
Well,
that would have been twenty years after
the fact, would it not?
If so,
Galatians predates Mark by at least a
decade.
It could not have been written in Greek,
but instead in Latin,
had that been the case.
And if in Rome,
Paul would not arrive and cross paths with Mark
until he was rejected, isolated, alone.
Therefore,
a connection between Mark and a gospel
available to Paul or the Galatians at this
time cannot be made,
especially since it will overtly condemn
Peter.
And the same letter.
Also, we must be careful.
There is no credible historical evidence
that Marcus even existed,
that he translated for Peter.
None.
or that he compiled the book attributed to
him?
None.
And there is no evidence that Shimon Peter
was ever in Rome.
And that is the other reason I attribute
Mark to being under Paul's influence,
because in the book of Acts,
Paul admits to it.
According to his own testimony,
Sha'uwl breathed his last breath and he died
in Rome.
Sixty-six CE.
Lucas was yet unknown to Paulos at the
time he wrote to the Galatians or to
the supposed disciples at the time the
Galatians was inscribed this book.
Therefore,
his hearsay portrayal in favor of Paul
could not have been written,
making any association between it and
Paul's use of euangelion at this time in
Galatians one six ill-advised.
Moreover,
Lucas was Paul's personal healer and
promoter and served as his propagandist.
Wasn't somebody that had any awareness of
what happened.
in thirty-three CE in Jerusalem.
Now, turning to John,
the earliest the book attributed to him,
not claimed by him, but attributed to him,
could have been written was ninety-five
CE.
And even then, in Ephesus,
in the center of the Roman and Greek
pagan culture.
And one cannot draw an affinity between
John and Paul since the self-appointed
apostle of Paul went to war against John,
personally condemning John's conflicting
and adversarial euangelion.
These are irresolvable problems for the
credibility of Christianity.
Therefore,
it is certain that Paulos was not writing
on behalf of or promoting the portrayals
and myths of subsequent gospel writers or
of gospel Jesus now found in Matthew,
Mark, Luke, or John.
At the time the Galatian letters was
penned,
divine writ was composed solely of the
Towrah, the prophets, and Psalms.
It still is.
Now,
should you be wondering why in his
subsequent letters,
Paulus never so much even refers to the
existence of a biographical portrayal of
gospel Jesus, the answer is twofold.
First,
Paul's message was the antithesis of that
which can be derived from the accounts
purporting to portray the words and deeds
of Ieosus,
who of course was not the Christ.
The caricature of the Lord painted by
Paulos differs so substantially in nature
and style and in substance.
Citations from the myth that they have
nothing in common.
They aren't even remotely acquainted.
And second, Paul's ego got in the way.
He was in competition with him.
After all,
he wanted us to believe that he was
both co-savior and co-author,
the chosen one,
completing what God himself could not
accomplish without his assistance.
Someone of his perceived status would
never cite a lesser individual.
Besides, Jesus never existed.
So what's the point?
It was Dowd's life that they were
miscasting, mischaracterizing,
that they were performing identity theft
upon.
And Dowd was so closely affiliated with
Yahowah,
he could not serve Sha'uwl's purpose.
This Sha'uwl was a reflection of the king
who sought to destroy Dowd long ago.
Sha'uwl, they shared the same name.
It isn't a coincidence that they bear the
name of Sheowl, hell,
and that they pursue the same foe and
were both demon-possessed and both
anti-Towrah.
And, of course, anti-Messiah, anti-Dowd.
You want to know an anti-Christ?
Paul.
Another one would be Donald Trump.
But they are anti-Christ because Dowd is
the Messiah and they were opposed to him.
The old English moniker, gospel,
like the use of the Greek goddesses named
Charis, known by the Latinized gratia,
grace,
has caused millions to believe that the
gospel of grace replaced the Towrah,
when instead the Towrah is the source of
mercy, compassion,
it's the source of life.
To know the Towrah is to know Chanan,
unearned favor,
and the liberty it provides.
So this bears repeating.
There has never been such a thing as
a gospel or a gospel of grace,
not in association with God.
Never was, never will be.
No matter where you look,
Christian apologists say that gospel means
good news.
Well, the fact is,
euangelion means good news or good message
and good or beneficial messenger,
but not gospel.
So they're projecting on the word that was
actually written,
which was changed for gospel.
Now, that's quite a lie.
That's pretty damn twisted.
Now, more to the point,
since euangelion actually means healing
messenger and beneficial message,
why not just translate the Greek term
accurately?
Why replace it?
Now,
Christian dictionaries go so far as to say
that gospel is from God, meaning good,
and that the spell means news.
But God was never an old English word
for good.
Nope.
They're just making it up as they go
along.
Instead,
God is a transliteration of the Germanic
Gott and epithet for Odin.
The Old English word for good was good.
The Middle English spell is from the Old
English spellion, which means to foretell,
to portend, or to relate.
As such,
gospel does not mean good news and is
therefore not a translation of euangelion
as Christians protest.
Other dictionaries suggest that gospel was
derived from an Anglo-Saxon word,
which meant the story concerning God.
There's no etymological history of such a
term in the annals of the Anglo-Saxons.
They're just making this stuff up.
Imagine people who want you to believe
their religion when they have to lie to
present it.
If you have to lie to make your
case, you don't have a case.
Now, while we're on this subject,
it is insightful to know that according to
Merriam-Webson's Collegiate Dictionary,
the English word spell came to us from
an Old English language dialect by way of
Middle English.
And circa sixteen twenty three,
which would be around the time of the
King James Version as it was being
popularized,
a spell one was a spoken word or
form of words which were held to have
magic power.
Primary definition.
It was a state of enchantment.
Secondary definition or three,
it was used in the context of casting
a spell.
That's a strikeout.
Do you want to challenge the
Merriam-Webster's research?
I don't think I would do so.
Merriam's New Twentieth Century Dictionary
says,
The word God is common among the Teutonic
tongues.
It was applied to heathen deities,
and later,
when the Teutonic peoples were converted
to Christianity,
the word was elevated to the Christian
sense.
Common to the Teutonic tongues,
it was applied to heathen deities,
and later,
when the Teutonic peoples were...
converted to Christianity,
it was elevated.
Further confirming that gospel conveyed
being under God's spell,
Merriam-Webster explains God is from the
Old English by way of the Middle English
and is akin to the Old High German
Gott,
which was derived before the twelfth
century CE.
Along these lines, we learned that Goten,
is the old high German word for goddess.
Digging a little deeper in our quest to
understand the religious origins of gospel
circa seventeenth century Europe,
when the religious connotation was
conceived and initially promoted,
the Encyclopedia Britannica says that God
is the common Teutonic word for a personal
object of religious worship applied to all
superhuman beings of the heathen
mythologies.
The word God,
upon the conversion of the Teutonic races
to Christianity,
was adopted as the name of the one
supreme being.
God's not a man.
Who's this superhuman being?
They got his name from the Germanic
pagans.
You know, you have a choice.
You can get his name from the Teutonic
races and say that the name of their
pagan deity was God,
so we're going to use that.
Or you can look in the Towrah where
Yahowah says, my name is Yahowah.
Choices, choices.
for in the manner common.
Now, by the way,
I don't have a problem with the
realization that in English and in many
other languages, the title of a deity,
either real or face, is a god.
You can be a false god or the
real god.
God himself uses the Hebrew term El and
Elohim to describe both his title and the
titles of false gods.
So there's no magic to God.
It just isn't a name.
It's a title.
God has only one name,
and his name is Yahowah according to him.
So they're missing the whole thing.
They're confusing a name and a title.
God's name is not God.
It's Yahowah,
something that's never mentioned in the
Christian New Testament.
So therefore,
in the manner common to most every
Christian corruption of Yahowah's word,
the religious term is drenched in
paganism.
Now, by comparison,
there is nothing particularly special
about the Greek word euangelion.
The first recorded use of it in the
feminine was as euangelia,
as opposed to the neuter form common in
these Greek texts.
This was attributed to Augustus and...
nine BCE in Pyrene when the Roman Caesar
was hailed as the savior of the world
for being the beneficial proclamation of
the Julian calendar.
And having mentioned,
so that's the first use of virtues
predates Paul's letter by, forty-three years,
So it's a common usage is by a
Roman pretending to be a God.
And he was the one that coined the
term that Paul stole.
And now that Christianity dances all
around with their gospel of Matthew, Mark,
Luke, and John, and the gospel of grace.
And yet the word was first coined by
the pagan despot, Augustus Caesar,
and adapted and adopted into the Christian
religion.
Now, as I have mentioned,
euangelion is a compound of two common
Greek words.
Eu means beneficial, healing,
and prosperous, even good.
And angelos is the Greek word for
messenger, thereby message.
So you get the corruption of...
Malak is the Hebrew word for messenger.
It is used typically to describe spiritual
type,
as in spiritual messengers or envoys from
Yahowah.
And rather than translate that as
messengers,
because it was replaced by agelos,
which is a translation of messenger into
the Greek, it became the name.
of them so that they're now called angels.
This is how we become unfamiliar with the
heritage of language and are so easily
deceived.
It's why I went to such lengths to
write not only amplified translations of
the Hebrew text from the oldest extant
witnesses of the Dead Sea Scrolls,
but I provided the very basis of the
Hebrew words that were being translated so
you become familiar with them and can look
them up for yourselves and would
understand the etymology.
etymology of words,
because if you don't understand the words,
you have no chance of knowing who's
telling you the truth.
So while Christians will protest that
something which heals and is beneficial is
by definition good,
and that a message can be news,
there is no reason to extrapolate when the
primary meaning is readily apparent.
Therefore,
those who seek to know and share the
truth are compelled to translate
euangelion accurately so that others will
understand its intended meaning.
Further,
there was nothing beneficial or good about
Sha'uwl's message.
which is why Yahowah called him the plague
of death.
Now, along these lines,
if agelos meant news as opposed to
message,
the agelos or spiritual messengers would
be newscasters instead of Yah's spiritual
envoys and representatives and his
heavenly messengers.
However,
while you can be translated as good,
beneficial, and healing,
there is a far more accurate and
descriptive definition.
In Hebrew, a messenger is a Malak.
A herald of news is a Basar.
Towb means good and beneficial.
El is one of Yahowah's titles.
Eld is testimony.
Further,
King Sha'uwl was good while King Dowd was
right.
Which do you suppose matters?
Being right.
And God's terminology?
Paul's or the church's?
You have a choice.
I don't think it's a hard choice.
So even in Greek,
if the intent was to communicate good as
in a sense of good news,
The preferred Greek words for good are
kalos and agathos.
Further, in the Sermon on the Mount,
the speaker is translating using the
former in Matthew, five sixteen saying, Thusly,
let your light shine before men,
so they might see within you the responses
and endeavors which are good . Kalos
thereby wonderfully attributing them to
your heavenly Father.
And with the latter gospel, Jesus says,
I am good in Matthew, using Agathos.
Therefore,
I present Yahowah's perspective on what is
actually Towb.
Good, productive, and beneficial.
I'd be remiss if I didn't share the
fact that the same light and endeavors
addressed in the Sermon on the Mount are
equated to Yahowah and his Towrah in the
hundred and fifth Psalm,
which actually proclaims because they
focus upon and observe closely examining
and carefully considering his clearly
communicated prescriptions of what they
should do in life to live.
and his Towrah,
his source of teaching and instruction.
They are saved, radiating, he has light.
Mizmowr
Song, Psalm, one oh five forty five.
With this connection established,
and especially now that we know that
Yahowah and His Towrah have become Sha'uwl's
enemies,
we'll take a moment to more completely
consider the position that is articulated
by the other side in this debate.
And for that, we'll turn to Dowd.
And since we have gone past our hour
mark on this program,
we'll do that later this week as we
progress with the other side.
so that you would know what God actually
said,
what it is that he would like you
to observe, think about, and act upon,
as opposed to the rubbish that was vomited
out of the mouth of Paul and now
is regurgitated in Christianity.
I look forward to sharing that with you
later this week.
Good day.